4.72 Sea sett Multimedia AA Web Technology (x)

Clear/Delete. Deletes a selected portion of data, but dozen’t copy it oNTo the chipboard (st Om,
Delete).
e Undo. You can easily undo and redo edit op eration. even prior to your last save op erator,

- Undo any edit op eration by choosing Undo from the Edit menu, or by clickking the Undo taste, ts
the Standard toolbar.

- Redo any undone edit op eration by Redo from the Edit menu, or by clickking Trey peas.
button on the Standard toolbar.

Sound Copying and Pasting |

Data can be copied from one data window (the source) and pasted iNTo another data window (the distinctive,.
To copy and paste sound:

If both source and destination files already exist, open them both. Or, if you waNT to copy paNT of z
sound wave from an existing file and poke it iNTo a new, empty file, open the existing file and creates
new one.

If the source’s data window is not already the active window, bring it to the froNT by clickking on its tine
bar.

Select the segmeNT of sound that VOA waNT to copy by drAgging across the sound wave.
Pull down the Edit menu, and select Cop.
Make the destination’s data window active by clickking on its title bar.

If the destination file already coNTains digitized sound, then clickk with the mouse where you would Ice
the copied sound to be inserted.

Pull down the Edit menu and select Paste. The sound wave will appear in the destination data window
Click the Play button to hear VOAr¢ election,

4.10 SOUND EFFECTS

The Effects menu lets you add all sorts of special effects to your recording. For example. you can add an echo.

distort the sound, bend the pitch or add some chorus. This menu is only available when a data window is op er
To apply effects: Ag

 

 

VT
e If you waNT the effect to apply to the : ~-_ > >
eNTire sound file. don t select sag UN
anything in the data widow. If you BS es
waNT the effect to happen only for a i SE
suBSet of sound, select where you - , ET Vera Shah bone
waNT it 0 Occur. ~ ET tees beg Rhee Rea
e Pull down the Effects menu and Sere ea Le _
choose an effect ( say Chorus). A cRhee NT tea
dialog box with options for the © (7° *°®T Cm steel
selected effect will appear (see Fogre 9 “SWOT *R RE RI _
427) “ear eaT GIL, 3
© Choose the desired effect and give . ">" ~™ -
: : > ea fee Do cea.
in differeNT levels and ea SW
some angers AA's hAg Seen sea, —-
click
e Play the sound to hear the effect.
a

of

F ogre 4.27 Chorus effect dialog box.
