input and Output Devices

1.25

These printers are slow and noisy and @ not used for personal computers anymore (but they can print mult

layer forms, which neither ink jet or laser printers can do).

e According to the number of wires in the print head, the
character matrix may be X, 77, X. X or even
X. The more dots, the better would be the image.
Line widths are typically 80, 120, 132, 160 or 240,

Speeds are typically from 30 cps to 200 cps.
Multiple print copy may be ready€ed by the usage of carbon
paper.

Daisy Wheel Printers |:
Another popular type of low speed @pact printer is the Daisy Wheel
printer, which is used when high print quality is demanded. The features
are:

e An impact shaped-character printer.
These printers are fitted with unchangeable print heads called
daisy wheels. To print each character, the wheel is rotated and
the appropriate stroke struck against an inked ribbon.

* Speed is around 45 cps (characters per second).

¢ Similar to the dot matrix printers in terms of page size and
multiple copy printing.

 
 

There are many other low-speed printers. Two major types are:

 

Figure 2.21 A dot matrix printer.

Note

PAT RI Io”
Daisy-wheel printers produce
letter-quality print but cannot
print graphics.

PARR SE

 

Figure 2.22 A daisy wheel printer.

* Thermal Printers. These are non-impact printers, which print on to special paper whose surface is
designed with a chemical so that a dot is produced, based on the reaction of the chemical to the heat.
No ribbon or ink is involved. For users, who want the highest-quality desktop color printing, available
thermal printers would be ideal. They are very quiet and this gives them a big advantage for some

special applications. For example;

e The Fax and ATM machines gets your receipt on the spot from the

machine with thermal printing technology.

® The tickets that are issued are nowadays printed with thermal printers.
This is because it is better and faster than ordinary printing.

© Ultrasound printouts are done with thermal printers.

* Businesses like grocery, supermarkets, departmental stores and the
likes are also making use of thermal printers for the printing of receipt.

 

Figure 2.23 An Epson thermal printer.

> Ink jet Printers. These are non-impact printers. The most common type of printer for home systems
is the color ink jet printer. These printers form the image on the page by spraying tiny droplets of ink
