Concepts of Software

1.33

3.3.2 Application Software

Application softre Is a set of programs designed for specific uses = What
or to perform specific tasks. For example, the various application
softre examples are MS Office, OpenOffice, Media Player, etc.

is application
softre?

Educational softre, media development softre, antivirus softre, The soft re which is used for
etc. are the different types of softre applications. Application specific application is called
softre can be custom-made but is usually purchased off the shelf. application softre.

For example, accounting programs, database programs, graphicggpaint, »
drawing, and image editing programs, etc.

Application softres are categorized into two parts:

I .
General Purpose Application Software |

General purpose application softre
Specific purpose application softre

 

 

A general purpose softre would be anything that aids in allowing you to accomplish simple computer related
tasks. For example: word processing softre, spreadsheet softre, etc.

Processors. A word processor (such as MS-Word, OpenOffice.org Writer, etc.) is a general
purpose application softre that enables us to create, edit, print and save documents for future
revision and retrieval.

spreadsheet This application softre consists of sheets having a matrix of rows and columns.
The intersection areas of rows and columns are called Cells. The Cells of a spreadsheet are used for
entering numbers, text, formulae and functions. For example, most common spreadsheet application
softres are Microsoft Excel and OpenOffice.org Cal.

Presentation. Presentation packages are used to communicate ideas to those who might be unfamiliar
with a situation or who need a simple but highly effective overview oaf topic as a straight character-
based (table-based) report. For example, sales analysis, product demonstration, advertisement, product
marketing, etc. The most common examples of presentation packages are Microsoft PowerPoint and
OpenOffice.org Impress.

Database Management. A database is a collection of inter-related data stored together with
controlled redundancy to serve one or more applications in an optional fashion. For example, MS-

Access, OpenOffice.org Base, Oracle, Subs, Fox Pro, etc.

Each item or piece of information in a database is known as a field and a group of related fields is
referred to as a record. A database is nothing but a collection of such records.

Graphics Packages. Computer accessible data can readily be converted to graphic form on the
screen as well as on paper using dot matrix printers or plotters. With plotters it is possible to have
different colors. Typical graphics softre enables data to be plotted as: line chart, bar chart and pie

chart.

Desktop Pu bi}&hing Packages. Desktop Publishing Packages are very popular in Indian context.
Newer publishing packages also provide certain inbuilt formats such as brochures, newsletters,
flyers, etc. which can be used directly. Already created text can be very easily put in these packages,
so as the graphics placements. Many DTP packages for English and languages other than English are
available. Microsoft Publisher, Page Maker, Corel Venture are few popular names. Desktop Publishing
packages, in general, are better equipped in Apple-Macintosh computers.
