90

rrp i cannes

APPLIED ELECTRONICS

 

biased. Since, the transistor T'y is forward hiased, through the collector heavy current will flow. So
the transistor Ty will be saturated. The collector potential of the transistor Tz will be nearly zero,
The base of the transistor Ty will be at vero potMitial since it is connected to the base of T, through
the resistor Rp,. The emitter of the transistor T, is also at ground potential. This will make the
transistor T) to cut-off. The collector of the transistor T, is maintained at Voc. Now the transistor
T) is in cut-off state and Ty is in the conducting state (saturation level).

Now a positive pulse of sufficient smphkude at the hase of the transistor T; to make it conducting,
So a collector current will flow through Re, of the transistor T; and the there will be a voltage drop
across it. This negative change in the collector voltage of T; will be coupled through C, to the base of
the transistor T2. This will reduce the collector current of the transistor Tz. So the collector voltage
of T, will rises. This rise in voltage will be coupled to the base of the transistor T, through Rp,. So
the collector current of the transistor T, will rise and the collector voltage decreases simultaneously.
This drop of the collector voltage of the transistor T, will be coupled to the base of the transistor T,
driving it to cut-off region. This €egenerativaction will make T, cut-off and T, in conducting state.

VIN

t
I
I
t
I
I
I

 

|
]
(a) Input Voltage
1
i

 

VBo

-Vcc
+Voco

   
  

1
(b) Base Voltage of Transistor To
|

\
l

(c) Output Voltage of Transistor To

Fig. E17.2 Waveform of Multivibrator

The reduction of the collector Gitaasys T, from Vcc to zero will force the capacitor C, to discharge
through R11. Initially the voltage at the base of the transistor Tz will be —Voc. Since C, continues to

discharge towards +Vcc, the voltage at the base of transistor rises exponentially (Fig. E17.2 Waveform
Vp,) when the base voltage of the transistor T, rise above OV, T2 starts conducting again. So the
voltage at the collector of transistor T2 i.e., across Rc, decreases and consequently the base voltage
of the transistor T, decreases. Therefore the transistor T, will be driven to cut-off. The collector
voltage of the transistor T, will move twa +Vcc. Capacitor C; therefore starts charging. Now
the transistor Tz is ON and T, is OFF. Tz remains OFF untill a positive pulse causes the manostable
multivibrator to change its state.

» Circuit Diagram

The circuit shown in the Fig. E17.1 to be asseypltd with the discrete components. The operating
characteristics can be studied with the help of measuring instruments. The waveform to be studied
with the help of oscilloscope.
