UNIT |

Computer System Organization

1.1 INTRODUCTION

Nowadays, computers are wn integral parlol our lives, They are aged for yes ectien ASO Ds Son Binge

and railways, paynient of telephone and elect icity bili, deposit sapued watbvepsataseal of pave anes / Satansy baat, pO Oe

of business data, forecasting, of wepdes GONdIHODS, Giagnosis Of

diseases, searching, for ifounation on the Infemel, clo. Computers What te Computer?

are also used extensively in schools, universities, Of gan Zaons, Ihde A computer is an Glonteonic

industry, movie industry, scientifie research, law finns, bastion indisty, systonm which tan accepts/

cle. ee inputs data/instructions, stores
The term €omputedis derived from the word compute. I he word ng procens the date secording

compute means lo gatentate, A computer is an electronic device which te the sat of instructions and

lakes input from the USGL, processet I and pives the required posuyt in produce the results of the

the form of display OF pri, Procastssitigs int sa spss iflesS feorrescst
From the abovedclinilion) we know (hata computer mainly woke

on the principle and is shown in Fipure 1,1;

e Input. ‘Taking the inpul in the foun ef instruction and data,
e Process, Processing the instruction and dave and sloring the results,
¢ Output. Display the stored results oF ouyatiLinto the pri format,

Input —---~~—»> Process -~------+ Qutput

Figure 1.1 Basic operations of 4 computer.

1.2 MICROPROCESSOR

The main component of a computer system IK Microprocespor, ‘J he IniGroprocessor also known ata CPt, op
central processing unit containing the Arithmetic Logic Units (ALAS) and the Contros Units (CV ,o” 4 cannplece
Computation engine that is fabricated ona single LSI (Large Scale Inteprated) chip. ‘Ihe HUICLOpIOCENor 5 th .
heart of any normal computer, whether it is wan machine, a server ota laptop, ,

Computer is also a type of system becyie jt is a group of integrated parts whieh ws used ty aglve any

,

ecneral purpose problem by exceuting the suitable program.

Before we go into detail, Jet us outline the basic Components Of a computer system ‘These are

* Primary Memory. ‘lo store data and programs fenporarily, bor exainple, RAM
7 Be *
