Input and Output Devices 1.21

You can also see some
page’s contents.

2.2.4 Microphone (Voice/Spgeth Input)

A microphone can be attached to a computer to record
sound card input or circuitry built into the motherbo
turned into numbers that represent the origin

Scanners which c ‘teowith indie? - .
anners which comes with individual letter shapes and creates a text file of the

sound (usually through a
ard). The sound is digitized
al analog sound waves — and stored

in ne coat to later process and playback. This approach would climinate the
nee or eying in data and would facilitafe untrained users to use the computer
very easily.

 

Figure 2.11 Microphone voice input.

2.2.5 MIDI Devices

MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface) is a system designed to transmit information
between electronic musical instruments. A MIDI musical keyboard can be attached to a
computer and allows a performer to play music that is captured by the computer system

as a Sequence of notes with the assochted timing (instead of recording digitized sound
waves).

 

Figure 2.12 A MIDI device.
2.2.6 MICR

MICR stands for Magnetic Ink Character Recognition. Have you ever noticed a bank cheque or Demand
Draft? The cheque contains a number at the bottom. The number uses special magnetic ink. Again you will
notice that the writing style of the characters is different from the usual style.

eh yubsahcasaayash i stat aaa an aM CRRA i,

 
  

ph a8

u I} ~ KARIZIIA (LAD)
MEAR THAUHIKANY TALHAG OST WASHINL
£28 Aesth,  MANAMAS ITA cage

re BYP 1#S pe: SIRIICORM

  

ee

T tat
SHWETA GUPTA TROUT Beth WR TY OF ROE

 

   

/ - Voge 4000 RS
3 ONE THOUSAND RS. ONLY - mee
3
i 32645958430 — i
VALID FOR Ra. $000,000.00 & UNDER a iy \
oase260002 INNOWVA PROJECT
Muley cit) cette wacicae Dap ta Gears ot i Praga poate un t
re a ‘hy
a = ae a ee . ;
Cwrbasaar unOO 2B DODZ7IM BF bP ——— } Magnetic Ink Characters
“oa een mn eee RHEE TAT TAN
Note
GBC

Figure 2.13 MICR in a bank cheque.

ad by a dee (machine), and

Cha etic ink can be re
mee de, so that a computer

the machine changes these characters into co ;
can verify the characters for its duplication. So, one can verify whether
the cheque is valid or no type of processing technique wi n

Magnetic ink is known as Magnetic Ink Character Recognition.

MICR is used to read special
characters written with special
magnetized ink. MICR can read
up to only 2,400 documents/
min.

ANA ES
