Windows Operating System

4.1 INTRODUCTION
What is an operating
system (OS)?

An operating system (OS) is a
group of computer programs
that coordinates all the
activities among computer

Operating system is a set of programs which manages the
resources like hardware and software of the computer, processes
commands, and controls program execution. When we start a computer,
the operating system is the first software that is loaded into the memory.

This concept is called bootittg. While booting, the operating system
organizes all hardware and operating program instructions to Co- _ hardware devices. It is the first
ordinate between them. program loaded into the
Once the operating program instructions are loaded into the ¢omputer by a boot program
memory, other applications like word processor, spreadsheet, database, and remains in memory at all
times. It makes your computer

paint program and other programs can be exepated easily.
functional and is responsible for
4.2 NEED OF OPERANING SYSTEM running all the other software.

In earlier days user had to design the application according to the internal structure of the hardware. Operating
System was needed to enable the user to design the application without concerning the details of the computer’s
internal structure. In general the boundary between the hardware and software is transparent to the user.

4.3 FUNCTIONS OF AN OPERATING SYSTEM

At the simplest level, an operating (set) provides basic functions/features to users to maintain all the

programs in computer system. The basi¢ Tunctions of an operating system are:
1. Booting the computer. The process of starting or restarting the computer is known as booting.
2. Resource management. Performs basic computer tasks e.g., managing the various peripheral
devices e.g., mouse, keyboard, printer, etc. For example, most operating systems now are plug and play
which means a device such as a printer will automatically be dé and configured without any user
intervention.
Provides a user interface. When y}{ load an OS into computer, it provides us an environment
like command line or graphical user interface (GUI) where we can do our work.
Handles system resources. Handles computer memory and sharing of the central processing
unit (CPU) time by various applications or peripheral devices. The operating system ensures that each
application gcts the necessary resources it needs in order to maximize the functionality of the overall

system.
143
