Concepts of Software

1.33

3.3.2 Application Softydre

Application software Is a set of programs designed for specific uses = What
or to perform specific tasks. For example, the various application
software exaniples are MS Office, OpenOffice, Media Player, etc.

is application
software?

Educational software, media development software, antivirus software, The softwa re which is used for
etc. are the different types of software applications. Application specific application is called
software can be custom-made but is usually purchased off the shelf. application software.

For example, accounting programs, database programs, graphicggpaint, »
drawing, and image editing programs, etc.

Application softwares are categorized into two parts:

I .
General Purpose Application Software |

General purpose application software
Specific purpose application software

 

 

A general purpose software would be anything that aids in allowing you to accomplish simple computer related
tasks. For example: word processing software, spreadsheet software, etc.

Processors. A word processor (such as MS-Word, OpenOffice.org Writer, etc.) is a general
purpose application software that enables us to create, edit, print and save documents for future
revision and retrieval.

spreadsheet This application software consists of sheets having a matrix of rows and columns.
The intersection areas of rows and columns are called Cells. The Cells of a spreadsheet are used for
entering numbers, text, formulae and functions. For example, most common spreadsheet application
softwares are Microsoft Excel and OpenOffice.org Calc.

Presentation. Presentation packages are used to communicate ideas to those who might be unfamiliar
with a situation or who need a simple but highly effective overview ofa topic as a straight character-
based (table-based) report. For example, sales analysis, product demonstration, advertisement, product
marketing, etc. The most common examples of presentation packages are Microsoft PowerPoint and
OpenOffice.org Impress.

Database Managment. A database is a collection of inter-related data stored together with
controlled redundafhcy to serve one or more applications in an optional fashion. For example, MS-

Access, OpenOffice.org Base, Oracle, Sybase, FoxPro, etc.

Each item or piece of information in a database is known as a field and a group of related fields is
referred to as a record. A database is nothing but a collection of such records.

Graphics Packages. Computer accessible data can readily be converted to graphic form on the
screen as well as on paper using dot matrix printers or plotters. With plotters it is possible to have
different colors. Typical graphics software enables data to be plotted as: line chart, bar chart and pie

chart.

Desktop Pubi}&hing Packages. Desktop Publishing Packages are very popular in Indian context.
Newer publistiing packages also provide certain inbuilt formats such as brochures, newsletters,
flyers, etc. which can be used directly. Already created text can be very easily put in these packages,
so as the graphics placements. Many DTP packages for English and languages other than English are
available. Microsoft Publisher, PageMaker, Corel Ventura are few popular names. Desktop Publishing
packages, in general, are better equipped in Apple-Macintosh computers.
