Computer System Organization 1.5

The main characteristics of main memory are:

E These are semiconductor memories and known as main memory.
E These are usually volatile memory.

E Data is lost in case power is switched off.

E Its the working memory of the computer.

E Faster than secondary memories.

E

A computer cannot run without primary memory.

The primary memory also has two parts, namely, RAM (Random Access Memory) and ROM (Read Only
Memory).

What is chip?

Integrated circuit. Generally it

_ is small, thin piece of silicon

- onto which the transistors

' Making up the microprocessor

_ have been etched. A chip might
Be as large as an inch on side

- and can contain tens of millions
Of transistors. Simpler
Processors might consist of a
Few thousand transistors
Etched onto a chip just a few
Millimeters square.

 
A ROM is prepared by the manufacturer and cannot be altered once
The chip has been made. It is the memory unit that performs the read
Operation only. It does not have a write capability. It is sometimes
Called non-volatile memory as it is not erased when the system is
Switched off. The user of the computer cannot alter the contents of
ROM. A computer can only read the data and programs in ROM. The
Content of ROM is fixed when the ROM chip or compact disk is
Manufactured.

Silicon chip is a popular name for integrated circuit. Silicon chips

Are used for processor and memory. The ROM contents are not lost
When the computer is turned off.

Note

 
The start up instructions stored
On ROM Ina PC are part of the
BIOS (Basic Input Output
System). The BIOS also
Contains the low-level interface
Code needed to access the

* PROM, It is the short form for Programmable Read Only drives, keyboard, and produce
Memory. As we know that the user of the computer cannot simple display output.
To write on them. The contents of Programmable> ROM or
PROM are altered by the programmer using special processes.

& EPROM. It is the short form for Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory. This memory is
Used to store information that stays the same, or that is rarely needed to be changed. To change the
Information on an EPROM, it must be taken from the computer and put into a special device. The entire
Contents of the EPROM are deleted, and it is ready to program again.
Light erases the programs in EPROM.

It can be programmed through the use of special electrical pulses. It is possible to integrate the
Circuitry into the computer, so that the EPROM does not have to be removed from its socket for
Programming.

 
Figure 1.4 A typical ROM.
ROM memory can be better classified as follows:

 
Eases EY

Y the chip to ultraviolet
