4.72 Seasett Multimedia aia Web Technology (x)

Clear/Delete. Deletcs a selected portion of data, but doesn’t copy it onto the chipboard (st Om,
Delete).
e Undo. You can easily undo and redo edit opgrheion. even prior to your last save operatior,

- Undo any edit operation by choosing Undo from the Edit menu, or by clicking the Undo taste, ts
the Standard toolbar.

- Redo any undone edit operation by Redo from the Edit menu, or by clicking tre pes.
button on the Standard toolbar.

Sound Copying and Pasting |

Data can be copied from one data window (the source) and pasted into another data window (the destinaticr,.
To copy and paste sound:

If both source and destination files already exist, open them both. Or, if you want to copy pant of z
sound wave from an existing file and poke it into a new, empty file, open the existing file and createz
new one.

If the source’s data window is not already the active window, bring it to the front by clicking on its tine
bar.

Select the segment of sound that vou want to copy by dragging across the sound wave.
Pull down the Edit menu, and select Copv.
Make the destination’s data window active by clicking on its title bar.

If the destination file already contains digitized sound, then click with the mouse where you would iixe
the copied sound to be inserted.

Pull down the Edit menu and select Paste. The sound wave will appear in the destination data window
Click the Play button to hear vour¢ election,

4.10 SOUND EFFECTS

The Effects menu lets you add all sorts of special effects to your recording. For example. you can add an echo.

distort the sound, bend the pitch or add some chorus. This menu is only available when a data window is oper
To apply effects: ag

 

 

vt
e Ifyou want the effect to apply to the : ~-_ > >
entire sound file. don t select sg une
anything in the data wipdow. If you bs es
want the effect to happen only for a i seo
subset of sound, select where you - , eet cera sha bone
want it 0 Occur. ~ eet teesbeg ree rae
e Pull down the Effects menu and Sere ae Le _
choose an effect ( say Chorus). A cree nt tea
dialog box with options for the © (7° *°®7t ecm stele
selected effect will appear (see Figure 9 “SWOT *R RE Ro _
427) “ear aeT GL, 3
© Choose the desired effect and give . ">" ~™ -
: : > ae fee Do cae.
in different levels and ae ws
some anges Aas hag Seen sae, —-
clic
e Play the sound to hear the effect.
a

oF

F igure 4.27 Chorus effect dialog box.
