4.58 Saraswati Multimedia and Web Technology (xt)

Movies on video builds 30 entire frapaés or pictures every second; the speed with which each frame is
replaced by the next one makes the images appear to blend smoothly into movement. Computer animations can
be effective at 12 to 15 fps (or more). Anything less results in a jerky motion, as the eye detects the Changes from
one frame to the next.

4.3 TYPES OF ANIMATIONS

There are two main types of animagiéns which are used in multimedia applications.

» The first type of animation. 2D animation or linear animation, is the simple movement of objects on the
screen, generally through linear translation. Multimedia development environments often provide the
necessary tools to perform this simple animation procedure.

» The original creation of animation. 3D animation, however, is very technically and artistically involved
as well as time consuming. Three dimen¥ional objects are created using a mathematical model. Each
object may be shown in various views, giving the user a realistic sense of third dimension.

Besides 2D animation and 3D animation, there are also other special effects techniques in computer
animation such as morphing and warping.

 

Type of animation in which interpolations betyeen specified points on two or more images create a transitional
effect. It gives the illusion that the first image is changing into the last one.

 

Warping is a related special effect that allows you to manipulate a single image. For example, you could stretch
a facial feature to change a frown into a smile.

4.4 WHAT IS MORPHING?

Morphing is a special technique that GreateS)a smooth, controlled transformation of one image into another.
The morphing effect is widely used for various tasks ranging from generation of fancy special effects, smoothing
transitions between video frames to funny warping of faces and mixing parent’s photos for prediction of how
their child will look like as shown in Figure 4.1 (or recreation of past hero image(fron he photos of his
descendants).

 

Figure 4.1.A Morphing example.

Aclassic example of this sort of transformation is shown in the well-known Black Or White video clip by
Michael Jackson, where the faces of different people change one into another.
