Ans.

. What does an Anchor Point do?
Ans.

6.
Ans.

7.
Ans.
8.
Ans.
9.
Ans.
10.

Ans.
11.
Ans.

12.
Ams.

13.
Ans.
14.
Ans.
15.
Ans.
16.
Ans.

“ES LAL)

- What happens as you {Click} and hold the mouse bution when using the Airbrush Tool?
Ans.

- What does the Rubber Stamp Tool do?
Ans.

The amount of paint that’s applied increases as we continue to hold down the button.

The Rubber Stamp Tool allows to paint with pixel content from the same or a different image. We select
an area of the image to duplicate or clone by {Alt/Option-Clicking} the area we wish to duplicate.
How do you create Custom Gradients?

We access the Gradient Editor by {Double Clicking} on the Gradient Preview in the Options Bar,

An Anchor Point connects 2 Line Segments, in a Path or Shape, together. They are major referenc,
points that help define the shape of the object.
What does a Direction Line do?

A Direction Line allows for curvature in a Line Segment. The user can adjust the length of a Directio;,
Line and the smoothness of the ourye that it is attached to will be affected.

Can the Pen Tool be used to draw Shapes? Ifso, how?

Yes. Select the Pen Tool and {Click} on the Create New Shape Layer Button in the Options Bar.

Ifa Layer is titled Background what does this indicate?

That it is the bottom Layer inthe Stacking order and cannot be edited.

What are the main advantages of Layer?

Layers allow the user to isolate and organize material. -

If two Layers are linked together and you reposition or move one of the linked Layers, does the position
of the other Layer change as well?

The content on the Layer wil/move but the Layer in the Layer’s Panel will not.

What are Layer Styles? "

Layer Styles are the combinations of effects that can be applied to the contents of a Layer. A typica
application for a Layer Style would be a level and drop shadow applied to a button.

How do you place a Layer inside a Layer Set?

We create a New Layer Set by {Clicking} on the New Layer Set Button in the Layers Palette and drag anc
drop Layers onto it.

What dialog box allows you to change the ptr of a Layer or Layer Set?

Layer Properties Dialog Box.

How do you expand and collapse Layer Sets and Layer Styles in the Layers Palette?

We click on the small triangle to the right of the Layer or Style Label in the Layers Palette.
What are the types of tones in Photoshop?

Shadows, Midtones and Highlights.

What are Filters?

Filters are a set of pre-set special eff¥cts that we apply to the entire images.

Review QueESTIONS

Awe rpr

How do you subtract one Shape from another? .
What is the difference between a collection of Shapes on a Shape Layer and a combined Shape.
How do you increase the number of sides in a Polygonal Shape?

What type of effects can be used to make up a Layer Style?

. How do you add a Drop Shadow to a Shape?

How do you create a New Style and how would you access it if you need to use it sometime the
future? . | |
What is scanning? Write the basic steps to scan an image in Photoshop.
