Computer System Organization 1.7

With different sets of priorities. The BA#Allows each device or process to operate without being held up by
The other. In order for a buffer to be effective, the size of the buffer and the algorithms for moving data into and
Activities.

This term is used both in programming and in hardware. In programming, buffering sometimes implies the

Need to screen data from its final intended place so that it can be
Edited or otherwise processed before being moved to a regular file or

DataBAse. What is secondary memory?

1.5.2 Secondary Memory Secondary storage is also

_ called auxiliary storage and is

Secondary storage devices provide a facility for permanently storing used to store data and
The information contained in temporary memory. There are several | programs when they are not
Types of secondary storage devices. The most common type of | being processed, Secondary
Secondary storage device is a disk. For example, floppy disk, hard - storage is more permanent than

Programs are retained when the

These are magnetic and optical memories. . Power is turned off.

It is known as Backup memory.

It is non-volatile memory.

Data is permanently stored even if power is switched off.
It is used for storage of data in computer.

Computer may run without secondary memory.

It is slower than primary.

The amount of data a disk can hold is called disk capacity. Disk capacity, like memory, is measured in Kilo
Bytes (KB), Mega Bytes (MB), Gig Bytes (GB), Terra Bytes (TB), Peat Bytes (PB), Exam Bytes (EBB) and Zeta
Bytes (ZN).

Magnetic disk. A magnetic disk is a circular platter of plastic, which is coated with magnetizable
Material. A magnetic disk offers high storage capacity, reliability, and the capacity to directly access
Stored data. The capacities of magnetic disk range from 1 MB (for
Floppy disks) to hundreds of MB.

Floppy disk. The floppy is made of pl#tic with magnetic coating
On it. It is round and is covered by square plastic jacket.
These disks are very useful in transferring data from one computer
To another. The floppy disk is handled in the Floppy Disk Drive
(FD) named as A or B drive.

Floppies come in three Basic sizes like 8-inch, 3%/-inch and
Y-inch.

 
Figure 1.6 A 3% inch floppy disk.

Hard disk. It is a solid, rounded DH or a pack of many disks. The disks are made up of a magnetic
Material and are sealed inside a case. It is used to store lots of programs and data permanently. You
Cannot see this from outside. It can store more information than a floppy disk. A disk is divided into
Tracks, cylinders and sectors.

E Track. A track is that portion of a disk which passes under a single stationary head during a disk
Rotation, a ring 1 bit wide.

E Cylinder. A cylinder comprises the set of tracks described by all the heads (on separate
Platters) at a single seek position. Each cylinder is equidistant from the center of the disk.
