Windows Operating System

4.1 INTRODUCTION
What is an operating
System (OS)?

An operating system (OS) is a
Group of compute programs
That coordinates all the
Activities among compute

Operating system is a set of programs which manages the
Resources like hardware and software of the compute, processes
Commands, and controls program execution. When we start a compute,
The operating system is the first software that is loaded into the memory.

This concept is called bootleg. While booting, the operating system
Organizes all hardware and operating program instructions to Co- _ hardware devices. It is the first
Ordinate between them. Program loaded into the
Memory, other applications like word processor, spreadsheet, database, and remains in memory at all
Times. It makes your compute

Paint program and other programs can be expiated easily.
Functional and is responsible for
4.2 NEED OF OPERATING SYSTEM running all the other software.

In earlier days' user had to design the application according to the internal structure of the hardware. Operating
Internal structure. In general the boundary between the hardware and software is transparent to the user.

4.3 FUNCTIONS OF AN OPERATING SYSTEM

At the simplest level, an operating (set) provides Basic functions/features to users to maintain all the

1. Booting the compute. The process of starting or restarting the compute is known as booting.
2. Resource management. Performs Basic compute tasks e.g., managing the various peripheral
Devices e.g., mouse, keyboard, printer, etc. For example, most operating systems now are plug and play
Intervention.
Provides a user interface. When y}{load an OS into compute, it provides us an environment
Like command line or graphical user interface (GUI) where we can do our work.
Handles system resources. Handles compute memory and sharing of the central processing
Unit (CPU) time by various applications or peripheral devices. The operating system ensures that each
Application gets the necessary resources it needs in order to maximize the functionality of the overall

System.
143
