90

Rep i Cannes

APPLIED ELECTRONICS

 
Biased. Since, the transistor T'y is forward biased, through the collector heavy current will flow. So
The transistor Ty will be saturated. The collector potential of the transistor TX will be nearly zero,
The base of the transistor Ty will be at zero potential since it is connected to the base of T, through
The resistor RP, . The emitter of the transistor T, is also at ground potential. This will make the
Transistor T) to cut-off. The collector of the transistor T, is maintained at Vic. Now the transistor
T) is in cut-off state and Ty is in the conducting state (saturation level).

Now a positive pulse of sufficient smoked at the has of the transistor T; to make it conducting,
So a collector current will flow through Re, of the transistor T; and the there will be a voltage drop
Across it. This negative change in the collector voltage of T; will be coupled through C, to the base of
The transistor T. This will reduce the collector current of the transistor TX. So the collector voltage
Of T, will rise. This rise in voltage will be coupled to the base of the transistor T, through RP, . So
The collector current of the transistor T, will rise and the collector voltage decreases simultaneously.
This drop of the collector voltage of the transistor T, will be coupled to the base of the transistor T,

VAIN

T
I
I
T
I
I
I

 
|
]
(a) Input Voltage
1
I

 
Vb

-Cc
+Vice

  
1
(b) Base Voltage of Transistor To
|

\
L

(c) Output Voltage of Transistor To

Fig. E'S.2 Waveform of Mufti vibrator

The reduction of the collector Getaways T, from Cc to zero will force the capacitor C, to discharge

Discharge towards +Cc, the voltage at the base of transistor rises exponentially (Fig. E'S.2 Waveform
VP, ) when the base voltage of the transistor T, rise above IV, T starts conducting again. So the
Voltage at the collector of transistor T i.e., across RC, decreases and consequently the base voltage
Of the transistor T, decreases. Therefore, the transistor T, will be driven to cut-off. The collector
Voltage of the transistor T, will move towards +Cc. Capacitor C; therefore starts charging. Now
The transistor TX is ON and T, is OFF. TX remains OFF until a positive pulse causes the Constable
Multi vibrator to change its state.


The circuit shown in the Fig. E'S.1 to be assaulted with the discrete components. The operating
Characteristics can be studied with the help of measuring instruments. The waveform to be studied
With the help of oscilloscope.
