Ans.

. What does an Anchor Point do?
Ans.

6.
Ans.

7.
Ans.
8.
Ans.
9.
Ans.
10.

Ans.
11.
Ans.

12.
AM's.

13.
Ans.
14.
Ans.
15.
Ans.
16.
Ans.


- What happens as you {Click} and hold the mouse button when using the Airbrush Tool?
Ans.

- What does the Rubber Stamp Tool do?
Ans.


The Rubber Stamp Tool allows painting with pixel content from the same or a different image. We select
An area of the image to duplicate or clone by {Alt/Option-Clicking} the area we wish to duplicate.
How do you create Custom Gradients?

We access the Gradient Editor by {Double Clicking} on the Gradient Preview in the Options Bar,

An Anchor Point connects 2 Line Segments, in a Path or Shape, together. They are major refer enc,
Points that help define the shape of the object.
What does a Direction Line do?

A Direction Line allows for curvature in a Line Segment. The user can adjust the length of a Direction;,
Line and the smoothness of the ye that it is attached to Will be affected.

Can the Pen Tool be used to draw Shapes? If so, how?

Yes. Select the Pen Tool and {Click} on the Create New Shape Layer Button in the Options Bar.

Ufa Layer is titled Background what does this indicate?

That it is the bottom Layer in the Stacking order and cannot be edited.

What are the main advantages of Layer?

Layers allow the user to isolate and organize material. -

If two Layers are linked together and you deposition or move one of the linked Layers, does the position
Of the other Layer change as well?



Layer Styles are the combinations of effect's that can be applied to the contents of a Layer. A typical
Application for a Layer Style would be a level and drop shadow applied to a button.

How do you place a Layer inside a Layer Set?

We create a New Layer Set by {Clicking} on the New Layer Set Button in the Layers Palette and drag ABC
Drop Layers onto it.

What dialog box allows you to change the PR of a Layer or Layer Set?

Layer Properties Dialog Box.

How do you expand and collapse Layer Sets and Layer Styles in the Layers Palette?

We click on the small triangle to the right of the Layer or Style Label in the Layers Palette.
What are the types of tones in Photo shop?

Shadows, Mid tones and Highlights.

What are Filters?

Filters are a set of pare-set special effects that we apply to the entire images.

Review Questions

Awe PR

How do you subtract one Shape from another? .
What is the difference between a collection of Shapes on a Shape Layer and a combined Shape.
How do you increase the number of sides in a Polygonal Shape?

What type of effects can be used to make up a Layer Style?

. How do you add a Drop Shadow to a Shape?

How do you create a New Style and how would you access it if you need to use it sometime the
Future? . | |
What is scanning? Write the basic steps to scan an image in Photo shop.
